COLIN CAMPBELL
Toronto, CANADA • 416-995-9404
colin@emergesource.com • https://emergesource.com

Versatile Software Engineering Leader with 20+ years of expertise in
shipping full-stack software products. Dedicated to cultivating talent
and creating an environment where individuals have fun and thrive.
Skilled at guiding cross-functional teams to achieve measurable success
while fostering a culture of trust, creativity, and continuous growth.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Engineering Leadership • Team Building • Coaching & Mentoring •
Strategic Planning • Project Roadmaps & Delivery • Product Development •
Analysis & Design • Application Development • Backend Engineering •
Platform Engineering • Infrastructure • Automation • Code Quality •
Process Optimization • Continuous Improvement

------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

TUCOWS INC, Toronto ON, 2015-2024
Director of Engineering, Platform Architecture

-   Responsible for strategic planning of Wavelo platform Architecture.
-   Led a team of 34 engineers, managers and product managers.
-   Designed and implement implemented Wavelo’s event driven
    microservice architecture. [Openstack, Terraform, Kafka, Nomad]
-   Partnered with engineering teams to provide technical guidance on
    system architecture trade-offs, balancing performance, reliability,
    and maintainability.
-   Ensured fault tolerant high availability for 8 million BOOST
    subscribers. [Openstack, Terraform, Grafana]
-   Collaborated with other department leads to deliver on strategic
    initiatives.
-   Led an observability transition from Datadog to Grafana saving +$10M
    in operating costs.
-   Delivered self-service platform tools allowing internal engineering
    teams to opt-in to platform services while they focus on their
    business initiatives.
-   Secured $2M with Scientific Research and Experimental Development
    (SR&ED) Tax Credit.
-   Designed and engineered Wavelo event gateway to manage ingress of
    millions of daily customer requests. [Typescript, Redis, Kafka]

Engineering Manager, Tucows Domains (2017-2021)

-   Responsible for both the OpenSRS UI Hover engineering teams [Rails,
    React].
-   Managed cross-functional collaboration and project delivery.
-   Took a hands-on approach coding & leading teams of 4-6 people.
-   Led technical discussions and design reviews, guiding engineers
    through complex trade-offs in distributed system design.
-   Provided Kafka event driven reference architecture and migration
    plan to modernize OpenSRS. [Python, Perl, Kafka]
-   Manged Hover beyond the 2 million domains under management
    milestone.
-   Rejuvenated Hover background processing with Sidekick.
-   Modernized CICD pipelines from Jenkins to github actions
-   Delivered modern domain admin tooling with Vuejs.

Senior Software Engineer, Tucows Domains (2015-2017)

-   Delivered key frontend components for GDPR readiness [Perl, Vuejs,
    React].
-   Provided timely improvements to aging SOLR implementation.
-   Contributed to the OpenSRS Domain Platform migration, enabling
    Tucows to integrate millions of domains from acquisitions like
    MelbourneIT and ENOM [Python, Perl].
-   Worked with the Automattic team on the PHP OpenSRS toolkit leading
    Tucows to acquire Millions of WordPress.com domain registrations
    from GoDaddy.
-   Led engineering efforts for ongoing improvements and modernization
    of the OpenSRS platform.

FIRE ENGINE RED, Philadelphia PA, 2012-2015
Senior Software Developer, Student Search

-   Focused on developing solutions to help America’s colleges and
    universities connect with prospective students.
-   Played a key role in delivering a CRM-based admission and alumni
    search solution. [PHP, Symfony, Laravel]
-   Leveraged Apache Solr to provide real-time, multi-user search
    capabilities and decision-making.
-   Provided guidance and leadership on testing & refactoring of legacy
    codebase.

MEDICAL PHARMACIES GROUP INC, Pickering ON, 2003-2012
Senior Software Developer, Pharmacy Engineering

-   Led a small, focused team of 3 engineers dedicated to improving
    patient outcomes.
-   Relied on automation to maintain efficiency and maximize impact with
    limited resources.
-   First to market on innovative mobile pharmacy interaction tools.
    [PHP, Javascript]
-   Delivered a patient aware drug inventory system servicing thousands
    of beds that drastically reduced medication errors and pharmacy
    waste. [C++, GTK]
-   Implemented a highly available data warehouse solution across 30+
    retail locations, providing the organization with much needed
    business and patient care insights. [VMware]
-   Maintained operational redundancies with hardware and software.
    [Perl, VMware]

FORMAL EDUCATION

Seneca College of Applied Arts and Technology
Computer Programming and Analysis

CERTIFICATES
Applications Developer Internet Specialist

TECHNICAL SKILLS
Python • JavaScript • Node.js • Perl • PHP • C • BASH • Django • React •
Vue • HTMX • PostgreSQL • MySQL • Redis • CI/CD • Git • GitHub Actions •
Jenkins • Kafka • Terraform • Kubernetes • Docker • Nomad • Consul •
Vault • Elasticsearch • Kibana • Fluentd • Prometheus • Grafana • Unix •
Linux • OpenStack • DigitalOcean • AWS • GCP
